## Project 64 is a Nintendo 64 emulator on the PC. 

?> P64 is short for Project 64.

This will guide you on how to install P64, and set it up.

## Downloading P64

First off, Grab the P64 installer from [here](https://www.pj64-emu.com/file/setup-project64-3-0-0-5632-f83bee9/)

## Installing P64

In the installer, tick everything apart from the **portable** checkbox. to download the program.
Once installed, open it up.

## Controller Config

Configuring P64 is actually **quite easy.** This guide shall help you set it up as a newcomer.

1. Inside of p64, Click **Options > Configuration.**
2. If you plan on using a external controller (not your keyboard), Go to **Plugins > Input (controller) Plugin** and then select N-Rage.
3. Go into **Options > Input Settings.**
4. Select **X-Input** If you used N-Rage.
5. It should automap your buttons, but if not, map them yourself by clicking on the button you want with your mouse, and then press the button you want it mapped to on your controller.

## Graphical Config

?> You can go much higher than these settings, so feel free to play around with your graphics configuration.

1. Inside the P64 menu (the home menu, not the config menu), Navigate to **Options > Graphics Settings**
2. Inside the graphics settings, unless you are on a old pentium 3 CPU, set the fullscreen resolution to 1080P & The aspect ratio to 16:9.
3. Set anti-aliasing to 4X. (A modern gpu can usually handle this level with ease.)

## Booting the ROM file.

To boot the rom file, it needs to end in .z64 or .n64

To boot into the rom file, follow these steps.

1. Go to **File > Open ROM.**
2. Locate the rom file you have on your PC and double click it.

## And thats all, I hope you enjoy playing your favourite childhood N64 games! :)



